# Hi there! I'm Tobias.

I'm an enthusiastic software developer living in Sweden. I love building things with technology that brings value to people.

## At work...

I work at [Atea Sverige AB](https://www.atea.se/), where my primary focus is
building, improving, and maintaining Viva Omsorg. Viva Omsorg is an application
used in the home healthcare sector which we've developed together with Cambio
(previously ILAB), and it's available on both
[iOS](https://itunes.apple.com/se/app/viva-omsorg/id1041319999?mt=8) and
[Android](https://play.google.com/store/apps/details?id=se.ateaapps.vivaomsorg).

I'm also leading the work to improve and scale our continuous integration and
continuous deployment infrastructure, as well as help with introduction of more
automation into our work flow (tests, deployments, provision of cloud resources,
etc.), all with the purpose to accomodate our ever growing list of projects.

Prior to Atea, I've worked on a large business platform used by a major retail
chain, and as a web developer primarily building websites for clients using
WordPress.

## From the beginning...

My journey began in the early 2000's, while still in high school, I taught
myself basic web technologies such as HTML, CSS, JavaScript, PHP, and classic
ASP (when that was a still thing, sort of).

After I finished my education, I got a job as a web developer for a marketing
agency, where we primarily built websites for clients using PHP and WordPress.
I was also tasked with making sure that our infrastructure was running smoothly,
it was here that I found the joy of using Linux (as our server infrastructure
was running on Linux).

From there I joined a team building a large business platform. Here my focus was
to build and maintain our iOS enterprise application (using Objective-C), build
the infrastructure for our data ingestion pipelines, and help building the web
application and the API (using PHP, MySQL, and ExtJS). As we were a rather small
team we quickly saw the necessity of introducing automation into our deployment
pipelines, which reduced the risk with new deployments and improved the autonomy
of the development team.

And now, I work in the DevOps department at Atea Sverige AB, where I spend the
majority of my time building new features and resolving issues in Viva Omsorg.
The remainder of my time is split between maintaining our server infrastructure,
help with architecting new solutions, create and maintain GitLab CI templates
for all of our supported platforms, and write web applications and APIs using
either C# and .NET or Spring with Kotlin/Java.
